# 04.05 - AI and developing economies

---

### Developing economies
- There is a fairly predicatable, repeatable roadmap. Almost a ladder that nations climb up to gain higher levels of wealth
    - Start off with lower-end agricultural products, exporting crops
    - Then move to low-end textile manufacturing, such as clothing
    - As the population gains a bit more wealth, move on to low-end component manufacturing like plastic parts
    - Then move to low-end electronics manufacturing
    - Then to high-end electronics manufacturing
    - Then something like automotive

### Problem
- One of the problems that AI can cause is that the lower rungs of the ladder are prone to automated
- As factories and as agriculture become more automated, there are less opportunities for larger, less developed nations' populations to climb up
- A possibility could be to use AI as a trampoline (or "leapfrog") to jump from where you are to more advanced technologies

### Leapfrog examples
- For example, in the United States, most of us had landline phones. It took awhile to transition to mobile phones. Less developed nations (like India) skipped it. They jumped straight over the earlier implementation of technologies
- Mobile payments is a similar thing. China and India use these very standard
- Online education is another thing. Why build physical infrastructure for in-person education?

### How develoing economies can build AI
- The US, China, UK, Canada and many others have vibrant AI communities. But all countries still have a lot of development ahead
- Focus on AI to strengthen a country's vertical industries
- Public-private partnerships to accelerate development
- Developing countries should continue investing in education
    - Participate in this AI-powered world we are building