# 01.05 - What machine learning can and cannot do

---

### Supervised learning
- Anything you can do with 1 second of thought, we can probably now or soon automate.

    | Input (a) | Output (b) | Application
    |:---------|:---------|:--------
    | email | spam (0/1) | spam filtering
    | audio | text transcript | speech recognition
    | English | Chinese | machine translation
    | ad, user info | click? (0/1) | online advertising
    | image, radar info | position of other cars | self-driving car
    | image of phone | defect? (0/1) | visual inspection
v
- With something like position of other cars, whether or not a phone is damaged, or whether or not a word is what you think it was... it's all something that can be processed within a second or so
- A human cannot produce a 50-word marketing report within a second
- One of the best ways to hold intuition is for concrete examples

### What machine learning today can and cannot do
- The toy arrived two days late, so I wasn't able to give it to my niece for her birthday. Can I return it?
    - An AI system would be able to take the input text (a) and output request (b) as either Refund/Shipping/Other.
    - An AI system today may not be able to say something like "Oh, sorry to hear that. I hope your niece had a good birthday. Yes, we can help with..."

### What happens if you try?
- With just 1000 examples, it wouldn't be enough for a system to generate an empathetic or custom response:

    | Input (a) | Output (b)
    |:---------|:--------|
    | User email | 2-3 paragraph response
    | 1000 emails | 
    | "My box was damaged." | Thank you for your email.
    | "Where do I write a review?" | Thank you for your email.
    | "What's the return policy?" | Thank you for your email.
    | "What's the return policy?" | Thank yes now your ...

- The rules for what AI can and cannot do are not hard and fast. 

### What makes a ML problem easier
1. Learning a "simple" concept is more likely to be feasible
    - Less than a second of thought to come to a conclusion
2. Lots of data available makes problems easier
    - This includes both inputs (a) and outputs (b)